4.14 OLM 1.0 Tech Preview procedures (#66036)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/olmv1-updating-an-operator.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/olm_v1/olmv1-installing-an-operator-from-a-catalog.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-updating-an-operator_{context}"]
= Updating an Operator

You can update your Operator by manually editing your Operator's custom resource (CR) and applying the changes.

.Prerequisites

* You have a catalog installed.
* You have an Operator installed.

.Procedure

. Inspect your Operator's package contents to find which channels and versions are available for updating by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get package <catalog_name>-<operator_name> -o yaml
----
+
.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get package redhat-operators-quay-operator -o yaml
----

> . Edit your Operator's CR to update the version to `3.9.1`, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: @michaelryanpeter I have new comments for your updated.
you remove channel information, but this example is following the installation section. for installation section, the example has channel, and but when I update it, the example has no channel. it is a little strange.
I think we should keep the same rule.

and the example output still keep channel information. (refer to https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/66036/files#diff-3a4664f5b5ccef6dd8762bcc6bc754af9267fa277045a6f9aeabb7807fb32087R102)

so,
1, if you want to remove channel information, please update the output and update the installation section as well.
or
2, if you move channel information back here, no need to change others.

Reviewer: if you still want to remove channel, here is the output.
```console
[root@preserve-olm-env2 olmv1review]# oc get operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example -o yaml
apiVersion: operators.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1
kind: Operator
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
      {"apiVersion":"operators.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1","kind":"Operator","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"quay-example"},"spec":{"packageName":"quay-operator","version":"3.9.1"}}
  creationTimestamp: "2023-10-19T02:39:05Z"
  generation: 2
  name: quay-example
  resourceVersion: "138637"
  uid: 480be93d-e325-4831-ac4a-8bfd451ef3bd
spec:
  packageName: quay-operator
  version: 3.9.1
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-10-19T02:39:05Z"
    message: resolved to "registry.redhat.io/quay/quay-operator-bundle@sha256:4864bc0d5c18a84a5f19e5e664b58d3133a2ac2a309c6b5659ab553f33214b09"
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: Success
    status: "True"
    type: Resolved
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-10-19T02:39:27Z"
    message: installed from "registry.redhat.io/quay/quay-operator-bundle@sha256:4864bc0d5c18a84a5f19e5e664b58d3133a2ac2a309c6b5659ab553f33214b09"
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: Success
    status: "True"
    type: Installed
  installedBundleResource: registry.redhat.io/quay/quay-operator-bundle@sha256:4864bc0d5c18a84a5f19e5e664b58d3133a2ac2a309c6b5659ab553f33214b09
  resolvedBundleResource: registry.redhat.io/quay/quay-operator-bundle@sha256:4864bc0d5c18a84a5f19e5e664b58d3133a2ac2a309c6b5659ab553f33214b09
```

Author: Oops. I thought I cleaned up the output. Thank you. I will fix it.

I removed the channel information because engineering mentioned that there is no point in specifying both a channel and a version at the same time.

+
.Example `test-operator.yaml` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1
kind: Operator
metadata:
  name: quay-example
spec:
  packageName: quay-operator
  version: 3.9.1 <1>
----
<1> Update the version to `3.9.1`

. Apply the update to the cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f test-operator.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,text]
----
operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example configured
----
+
[TIP]
====
You can patch and apply the changes to your Operator's channel and version from the CLI by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example -p \

Reviewer: @michaelryanpeter following the installation, if you update it with only updating version (not removing the channel), the command will does not work
```console
[root@preserve-olm-env2 olmv1review]# oc patch operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example -p \
>   '{"spec":{"version":"3.9.1"}}' \
>   --type=merge
operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example patched
[root@preserve-olm-env2 olmv1review]# oc get operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example -o yaml
apiVersion: operators.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1
kind: Operator
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
      {"apiVersion":"operators.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1","kind":"Operator","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"quay-example"},"spec":{"channel":"stable-3.8","packageName":"quay-operator","version":"3.8.12"}}
  creationTimestamp: "2023-10-19T02:42:21Z"
  generation: 2
  name: quay-example
  resourceVersion: "140524"
  uid: 5b3895d4-e008-42ee-8e45-84ce3c31bcad
spec:
  channel: stable-3.8
  packageName: quay-operator
  version: 3.9.1
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-10-19T02:43:08Z"
    message: package 'quay-operator' at version '3.9.1' in channel 'stable-3.8' not
      found
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: ResolutionFailed
    status: "False"
    type: Resolved
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-10-19T02:43:08Z"
    message: installation has not been attempted as resolution failed
    observedGeneration: 2
    reason: InstallationStatusUnknown
    status: Unknown
    type: Installed
```

so, for such update, you have to set channel because the installation section has channel.
so, I suggest to keep channel. if you want to remove channel still, please remove this patch method.

by the way, if you apply yam file which only have version, no such issue because the channel is removed.

Author: @kuiwang02 I have updated the commands and example outputs to use only the target version. Thank you for pointing out my error.

//
// * operators/olm_v1/olmv1-installing-an-operator-from-a-catalog.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-updating-an-operator_{context}"]
= Updating an Operator

You can update your Operator by manually editing your Operator's custom resource (CR) and applying the changes.

.Prerequisites

* You have a catalog installed.
* You have an Operator installed.

.Procedure

. Run the following command to inspect your Operator's package contents in the catalog to find which channels and versions are available for updating:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get package <catalog_name>-<operator_name> -o yaml
----
+
.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get package redhat-operators-quay-operator -o yaml
----

. Edit your Operator's CR to update the channel to `stable-3.9` and the version to `3.9.1`:, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example `test-operator.yaml` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1
kind: Operator
metadata:
  name: quay-example
spec:
  packageName: quay-operator
  channel: stable-3.9 <1>
  version: 3.9.1 <2>
----
<1> Update the channel to `stable-3.9`.
<2> Update the version to `3.9.1`

> . Run the following command to apply the update to the cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Apply the update to the cluster by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f test-operator.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,text]
----
operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example configured
----
+
[TIP]
====

> You can run the following command to patch and apply the changes to your Operator's channel and version from the CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can patch and apply the changes to your Operator's channel and version from the CLI by running the following command:
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example -p \
  '{"spec":{"channel":"stable-3.9","version":"3.9.1"}}' \
  --type=merge
----

.Example output
[source,text]
----
operator.operators.operatorframework.io/quay-example patched
----
====

.Verification

> * Run the following command verify that the channel and version updates have been applied:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify that the channel and version updates have been applied by running the following command:
```
